Manual on the standard TLA+ operators (#339)
informalsystems/apalache: docs/lang/tuples.md

# Tuples

[[Back to all operators]](./standard-operators.md)

> Tuples in TLA+ are a special kind of [functions](./functions.md) that satisfy one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tuples in TLA+ are special kinds of [functions](./functions.md) that satisfy one
```

of the following properties:

 - The domain is either empty, that is, `{}`, or
 - The domain is `1..n` for some `n > 0`.

> That is right. You can construct the empty tuple `<<>>`in TLA+ as well as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is right. You can construct the empty tuple `<<>>` in TLA+ as well as a
```

single-element tuple, e.g., `<<1>>`. You can also construct pairs, triples, an
so on, e.g., `<<1, TRUE>>`, `<<"Hello", "world", 2020>>`. If you think that
empty tuples do not make sense: In TLA+, there is no difference between tuples
and [sequences](./sequences.md).  Again, it is duck typing: Any function with
the domain `1..n` can be also treated as a tuple (or a sequence!), and vice
versa, tuples and sequences are also functions. So you can use all function
operators on tuples.

> Importantly, the domain of a tuple is `1..n` for some `n > 0`. So tuples never

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importantly, the domain of a nonempty tuple is `1..n` for some `n > 0`. So tuples never
```

have a 0th element. For instance, `<<1, 2>>[1]` gives us 1, whereas `<<1,
2>>[2]` gives us 2.

**Construction.** TLA+ provides you with a convenient syntax for constructing
tuples. For instance, the following example shows how to construct a tuple
that has two fields: Field 1 is assigned value `2`, and field 2 is
assigned value `TRUE`.

```tla
  <<2, TRUE>>
```

There is a tuple set constructor, which is well-known as [Cartesian product]:

```tla
  { "Alice", "Bob" } \X (1900..2000)
```

The expression in the above example constructs a set of tuples `<<n, y>>`: the
first field `n` is set to either "Alice" or "Bob", and the second field `y` is set
to an integer from 1900 to 2000.

**Application.** Simply use function application, e.g., `t[2]`.

> **Immutability**. As tuples are a special kind of [functions](./functions.md),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Immutability**. As tuples are special kinds of [functions](./functions.md),
```
